# `dsl-crypt-upload` (https://crypt.stay-in.uk)

Zero-knowledge, end-to-end encrypted file sharing + time expiration setting.

**Hosted on my site https://crypt.stay-in.uk!** Browsers on mobile devices
should work too.

## Overview & Upload / Download flow

In the project:
- `server/` is an (unoptimized) minimalistic generic Node.js HTTP file server. 
- `client-browser/` is the main browser UI that talks to a file server instance
  and does all the cipher ops.


Upload flow: In the browser UI, you select a file from your computer to upload,
set an expiration time (e.g., 5 minutes), and hit "Upload File". The browser
picks a random ChaCha20 key, encrypts the file chunks, and sends the encrypted
chunks to the server all in stream pipeline.

Once a upload completes, the browser UI provides a "Shareable URL" for sharing
and download and it looks like:

```
https://crypt.stay-in.uk/?file-name=my_image.png&file-id=yMMJKFcsCrZPqOkbvDq6Jkapw2GNyjj4qEotZ6uBAhJrhlCW6HzpcJnnCyBvkOu2&hash=bdb5e3d40390b9972f18fb9ee4d1e6cfc3ada0bdc2086401e0d938dfa9434ea5&key=10ecf8b8330f30e27f85d32b7d7613cb99f4c15af9024fd308fa4a1b8cf7c7cc
```

A "Shareable URL" completely encodes all the information required for file
download and hash verification. In detail:

1. `file-id` is the ID identifying the uploaded file on the server.
2. `file-name` is the suggested file name when saving a download to disk.
    - The file name is a metadata that lives only on client-side.
    - The upload process is designed to not require sending the file name to the
      server. This is because unsanitized file names tend to contain quite a lot
      of info. For example, if you send the file name `Microsoft Job Application
      V3 (Filled) (A4 paper print).pdf` to the server, the server hoster now
      knows you are unemployed. Even if one is to design the upload process to
      send the file name encrypted to the server, we would have to need to
      generate a second new ChaCha20 key and remember it, which is not elegant.
3. `hash` is the SHA256 hash of the plaintext of the uploaded file. Used for
   verifying downloaded files by other people.
    - Like `file-name`, it is not passed to the server, and is a metadata that
      lives only on client-side.
    - If the server hoster were to temper with the uploaded files in their storage,
      clients could tell.
4. `key` is the encryption key, the ChaCha20 secret key.
    - Randomly generated for every uploaded file.
    - Nonce is simply set to zero during cipher ops.

Download flow: Open the shareable URL in a browser, then hit download, and the
browser extracts the information from the shareable URL and knock on the server.
If the file is expired, the server simply rejects the download request.
Otherwise, the file is downloaded, and the browser decrypts everything, verifies
the file's hash, and saves the file to disk.

## Note on Security & AI usage

About security: This project (particularly the file server's implementation)
should be treated as though it has major security flaws. Test cases are
inexhaustive and no professional security analysis has been done on the project.
Many security features are straight-up absent like rate-limiting and IP banning
for preventing abuse.

On AI usage: The entire project's architecture and logic flow are designed by a
real person. However, the implementation is mostly generated by an AI coding
agent, though with heavy monitoring/manual editing by me - usually to fix bad
oneshotted AI-generated code with cleaner software design patterns, and then
prompt the AI coding agent continue from my software design patterns.
